evaluation/4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md, before:

# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria

## Broad Category 1

### Criteria

| Ref. No. | Description                              | When was it achieved                                                                             |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1        | Aim the turret up and down               | [2.2.2-cycle-2-rotation.md](../design-and-development/2.2.2-cycle-2-rotation.md "mention")       |
| 2        | Fire bullets from the barrel of the tank | [2.2.4-firing-bullets.md](../design-and-development/2.2.4-firing-bullets.md "mention")           |
| 3        | Gravity                                  | [2.2.4-firing-bullets.md](../design-and-development/2.2.4-firing-bullets.md "mention")           |
| 4        | Win condition / health                   | [2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md](../design-and-development/2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md "mention") |
| 5        | Terrain / Level                          | [2.2.6-cycle-6-terrain.md](../design-and-development/2.2.6-cycle-6-terrain.md "mention")         |
| 6        | Turn based                               | [2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md](../design-and-development/2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md "mention") |
| 7        | Variation                                | [2.2.8-cycle-8-wind.md](../design-and-development/2.2.8-cycle-8-wind.md "mention")               |
| 8        | Multiplayer                              | [2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md](../design-and-development/2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md "mention") |

### Criterion 1

Evidence for success/failure

Description of success/failure

Commit message:

GITBOOK-236: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

evaluation/4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md, after:

# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria

## Broad Category 1

### Criteria

| Ref. No. | Description                              | When was it achieved                                                                             |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1        | Aim the turret up and down               | [2.2.2-cycle-2-rotation.md](../design-and-development/2.2.2-cycle-2-rotation.md "mention")       |
| 2        | Fire bullets from the barrel of the tank | [2.2.4-firing-bullets.md](../design-and-development/2.2.4-firing-bullets.md "mention")           |
| 3        | Gravity                                  | [2.2.4-firing-bullets.md](../design-and-development/2.2.4-firing-bullets.md "mention")           |
| 4        | Win condition / health                   | [2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md](../design-and-development/2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md "mention") |
| 5        | Terrain / Level                          | [2.2.6-cycle-6-terrain.md](../design-and-development/2.2.6-cycle-6-terrain.md "mention")         |
| 6        | Turn based                               | [2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md](../design-and-development/2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md "mention") |
| 7        | Variation                                | [2.2.8-cycle-8-wind.md](../design-and-development/2.2.8-cycle-8-wind.md "mention")               |
| 8        | Multiplayer                              | [2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md](../design-and-development/2.2.9-cycle-9-multiplayer.md "mention") |

### Criterion 1

The turret for the player is movable by pressing the left and right arrow keys. The angle at which the turret aims increases linearly and is clamped between 0 and 70 degrees. In multiplayer, it affects only the current player's turret.&#x20;

### Criterion 2

When the space key is pressed, as long as there are no bullets on the screen, a bullet will be fired from the player's barrel. Direction and velocity are dependent on the angle of the turret and the power of the shot based on trigonometry.

### Criterion 3

Gravity affects the bullets after they come out of the turret which adds an element of skill as the player must predict the trajectory of the bullet in order to hit the enemy.

### Criterion 4

A health meter was not added in the final version of the game as I believe that needing to hit the enemy multiple times in order to score a point would be too hard. When a player/practice target is hit, they are immediately destroyed.&#x20;

### Criterion 5

A terrain was added to my game. At the start it begun with a drawing of lines from the bottom of the screen to a point on a sine wave which went across the screen. As drawings in kaboom have no collisions, bullets would travel straight through the lines. To fix this, small invisible squares with collision were placed along every pixel of the sine wave. As this meant nearly 2000 sprites were added to the scene, a lot of lag was created due to the processing requirements. To fix this issue, the width of the squares was increased, and less were placed along the line. Later down the line in production, the terrain was randomised using linear interpolation between points generated at intervals across the screen.&#x20;
