evaluation/4.2-evaluation-of-usability-features.md, before:

# 4.2 Evaluation of Usability Features

## Effective

| Feature No. | Description                       | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | --------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | The game is fun for players       | Success      |
| 2           | The game is the right difficulty  | Success      |

### Feature 1

As the feedback from players suggests, the game is very fun which means that they will want to come back and play more.

### Feature 2

Feedback from players shows that the game is not too easy which would make the game boring quickly, and not too hard as that would lead to players being frustrated.

## Efficient

| Feature No. | Description           | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | --------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | Make controls simple  | Success      |
| 2           | Rudimentary menus     | Success      |

### Feature 1

The controls are basic, self-explanatory and easy to remember so players can focus on the game.

### Feature 2

The menus in my game are very simple and human friendly which avoids confusion when first playing the game.

## Engaging

| Feature No. | Description                                                           | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | Automatically take the player to another level after hitting an enemy | Success      |
| 2           |                                                                       |              |

### Feature 1

Detailed evaluation against criteria 1

## Error Tolerant

| Feature No. | Description         | Success/Fail   |
| ----------- | ------------------- | -------------- |
| 1           | Feature description | as appropriate |

### Feature 1

Detailed evaluation against criteria 1

## Easy To Learn

| Feature No. | Description         | Success/Fail   |
| ----------- | ------------------- | -------------- |
| 1           | Feature description | as appropriate |

### Feature 1

Detailed evaluation against criteria 1

Commit message:

GITBOOK-250: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

evaluation/4.2-evaluation-of-usability-features.md, after:

# 4.2 Evaluation of Usability Features

## Effective

| Feature No. | Description                       | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | --------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | The game is fun for players       | Success      |
| 2           | The game is the right difficulty  | Success      |

### Feature 1

As the feedback from players suggests, the game is very fun which means that they will want to come back and play more.

### Feature 2

Feedback from players shows that the game is not too easy which would make the game boring quickly, and not too hard as that would lead to players being frustrated.

## Efficient

| Feature No. | Description           | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | --------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | Make controls simple  | Success      |
| 2           | Rudimentary menus     | Success      |

### Feature 1

The controls are basic, self-explanatory and easy to remember so players can focus on the game.

### Feature 2

The menus in my game are very simple and human friendly which avoids confusion when first playing the game.

## Engaging

| Feature No. | Description                                                           | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | Automatically take the player to another level after hitting an enemy | Success      |
| 2           | Game requires skill giving players a reason to play                   | Success      |

### Feature 1

A new randomly generated level is made after the player hits an enemy. This makes the player want to continue playing and in multiplayer the scoreboard updates making the competitive nature of the game stand out.

### Feature 2

The game requires skill to aim and hit the targets with a good accuracy. This makes the player want to develop their skill and keep playing.

## Error Tolerant

| Feature No. | Description                   | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | The game doesn't crash        | Success      |
| 2           | There are no bugs in the game | Fail         |

### Feature 1

During playtesting and player feedback, no crashes were recorded from anyone.

### Feature 2&#x20;

The one prominent bug in the game is that the barrel of the players can go under the terrain, which also means bullets can go under the map where they are not supposed to be.&#x20;

## Easy To Learn

| Feature No. | Description                                                           | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | Controls should be easy to learn and straightforward                  | Success      |
| 2           | Objective of the game should be very clear and menus easy to navigate | Success      |

### Feature 1

The controls for the game are straightforward and easy to use, however a screen displaying all the controls to the player would have made it more clear on all the controls.

### Feature 2

When the player enters the game, it is easy to navigate the menus and you can tell that the objective is to hit the enemy tank.
