# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* **Accessibility -** The game is made in Replit which runs on browsers and requires an internet connection to be able to run the game. Also, the game is only able to be played on a PC or laptop. There is currently no implementation for controller support in my game yet meaning it can only be played with a computer keyboard and a mouse / trackpad.&#x20;
* **Graphics -** Due to time limitations, the sprites and textures for my game are all very simple.&#x20;

## Maintenance

My efforts to maintain the game would be very limited due to there only being one person able to develop and fix bugs. A possibility is making the source code public and allow the community to make changes in the form of forking on GitHub. This allows them to create pull requests which I can then review and add to the main branch of the game. This means that the community can develop bug fixes which then get added to the game.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

The bug where the players' barrels can go through the floor should be fixed as this affects the gameplay, although it doesn't hinder the players' performance.

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

**Accessibility -** To make the game more accessible, it could be ported to regular node.js so that it can be run on a desktop, meaning no internet connection is required. Adding controller support is something that could be done easily in the future however adding support for playing on mobile devices is more difficult.

**Graphics -** As I have limited experience with artwork, to improve the artwork it would be better to have someone else to design the art for this game, in order to make the sprites more suited to the theme of the game and to create a more captivating experience.
