analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md, before:

# 1.3 Research

## ShellShock Live

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (1).png>)![](../.gitbook/assets/image.png)

### Overview

ShellShock Live is an online multiplayer free to play strategy game made and published by kChamp games, where players try to destroy eachothers' tanks to win the game

### Aspect 1 (of 2-4 aspects per solution?)

A simple online multiplayer game which can have 2 players concurrently

### Features

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Features I will Include" %}
| Feature             | Justification                               |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Some reason it's a good fit in this project |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Features I won" %}
| Feature             | Justification                                              |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Reason it's beyond the scope/not suitable for this project |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-45: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md, after:

# 1.3 Research

## ShellShock Live

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (1).png>)![](../.gitbook/assets/image.png)

### Overview

ShellShock Live is an online multiplayer free-to-play strategy game made and published by kChamp games, where players try to destroy eachothers' tanks to win the game by aiming the turrets at the correct angle with the right amount of power to hit them.

### Aspect 1 (of 2-4 aspects per solution?)

A simple online multiplayer game which can have 2 players concurrently

### Features

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Features I will Include" %}
| Feature             | Justification                               |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Some reason it's a good fit in this project |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Features I won" %}
| Feature             | Justification                                              |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Reason it's beyond the scope/not suitable for this project |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
