analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md, before:

# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Gameplay

### Controls

The controls will be very simple and easy to learn.&#x20;

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image (2).png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Arrow keys on the keyboard will be used</p></figcaption></figure>

The arrow keys will be used for the tank game, with up and down to adjust the power, and left and right arrows controlling the angle of the shot. The spacebar will be used to fire a round at the enemy.

### Level Design

The levels can be randomly generated to create a new terrain each time it is played using random noise generation. This will keep the game fresh for the player as it is different each time they play.

### Physics

The game will have physics acting on the bullets so they are affected by gravity and each player must use this to aim the tanks' turrets at the correct angle and power so the bullet hits the enemies' tanks.

## Limitations

### Graphics

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-71: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md, after:

# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Gameplay

### Controls

The controls will be very simple and easy to learn.&#x20;

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image (2).png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Arrow keys on the keyboard will be used</p></figcaption></figure>

The arrow keys will be used for the tank game, with up and down to adjust the power, and left and right arrows controlling the angle of the shot. The spacebar will be used to fire a round at the enemy.

### Level Design

The levels can be randomly generated to create a new terrain each time it is played using random noise generation. This will keep the game fresh for the player as it is different each time they play.

### Physics

The game will have physics acting on the bullets so they are affected by gravity and each player must use this to aim the tanks' turrets at the correct angle and power so the bullet hits the enemies' tanks.

## Limitations

### Graphics

Due to time limitations, graphics will not be the main focus of the game and they will be kept very basic with not much model design present
