analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md, before:

# 1.5 Success Criteria

### Gameplay

| Ref. No. | Criterion                                | Justification                                                                                                                                                              | Reference                                                                             |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1        | Aim the turret up and down               | The main controls which must be implemented are the movements of the turret                                                                                                | [#controls](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls "mention")             |
| 2        | Fire bullets from the barrel of the tank | In order for the players to win there must be a feature to allow them to shoot each other                                                                                  | [#controls](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls "mention")             |
| 3        | Gravity                                  | Bullets fired from the players' tanks should fall down under gravity meaning that skill is needed to hit the other player                                                  | [#physics](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#physics "mention")               |
| 4        | Win condition / health                   | A way of winning the game needs to be implemented i.e. health for each players' tank                                                                                       |                                                                                       |
| 5        | Terrain / Level                          | A level must be present for the game to be played in which will be randomly generated terrain                                                                              | [#level-design](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#level-design "mention")     |
| 6        | Turn based                               | Players take turns shooting at eachothers' tanks to reduce chaos                                                                                                           |                                                                                       |
| 7        | Variation                                | Some form of variation should be present between the player's turn such as wind affecting the speed of the bullets meaning the player should adjust their shot accordingly |                                                                                       |
| 8        | UI                                       | A simple user interface should be present in the game                                                                                                                      | [#user-interface](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#user-interface "mention") |

### Non-functional

Features to include in the game which aren't centered around the mechanics of the game.

| Ref. No. | Criterion              | Justification                                                                                                                                                                               | Reference                                                                       |
| -------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 9        | Suits PEGI rating of 3 | The game shouldn't feature content unsuitable for young players                                                                                                                             | [#age-ratings](1.2-stakeholders.md#age-ratings "mention")                       |
| 10       | Playable FPS           | A FPS consistently above 25 is considered playable and if the game runs below that, changes must be made to algorithms to improve the FPS                                                   | [1.4b-computational-methods.md](1.4b-computational-methods.md "mention")        |
| 11       | Speed of connecting    | Part of a player's experience is finding a game which shouldn't take so long that they become bored or uninterested so having networking which can operate at a suitable speed is necessary | [#multiplayer](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#multiplayer "mention") |

Commit message:

GITBOOK-131: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md, after:

# 1.5 Success Criteria

### Gameplay

These are the functional aspects I wish to include in the game, meaning features which the player will interact with and are based around the core functionaluty of the game.

| Ref. No. | Criterion                                | Justification                                                                                                                                                              | Reference                                                                             |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1        | Aim the turret up and down               | The main controls which must be implemented are the movements of the turret                                                                                                | [#controls](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls "mention")             |
| 2        | Fire bullets from the barrel of the tank | In order for the players to win there must be a feature to allow them to shoot each other                                                                                  | [#controls](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls "mention")             |
| 3        | Gravity                                  | Bullets fired from the players' tanks should fall down under gravity meaning that skill is needed to hit the other player                                                  | [#physics](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#physics "mention")               |
| 4        | Win condition / health                   | A way of winning the game needs to be implemented i.e. health for each players' tank                                                                                       |                                                                                       |
| 5        | Terrain / Level                          | A level must be present for the game to be played in which will be randomly generated terrain                                                                              | [#level-design](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#level-design "mention")     |
| 6        | Turn based                               | Players take turns shooting at eachothers' tanks to reduce chaos                                                                                                           |                                                                                       |
| 7        | Variation                                | Some form of variation should be present between the player's turn such as wind affecting the speed of the bullets meaning the player should adjust their shot accordingly |                                                                                       |
| 8        | UI                                       | A simple user interface should be present in the game                                                                                                                      | [#user-interface](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#user-interface "mention") |

### Non-functional

Features to include in the game which aren't centered around the mechanics of the game.

| Ref. No. | Criterion              | Justification                                                                                                                                                                               | Reference                                                                       |
| -------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 9        | Suits PEGI rating of 3 | The game shouldn't feature content unsuitable for young players                                                                                                                             | [#age-ratings](1.2-stakeholders.md#age-ratings "mention")                       |
| 10       | Playable FPS           | A FPS consistently above 25 is considered playable and if the game runs below that, changes must be made to algorithms to improve the FPS                                                   | [1.4b-computational-methods.md](1.4b-computational-methods.md "mention")        |
| 11       | Speed of connecting    | Part of a player's experience is finding a game which shouldn't take so long that they become bored or uninterested so having networking which can operate at a suitable speed is necessary | [#multiplayer](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#multiplayer "mention") |
