design-and-development/2.2.4-firing-bullets.md, before:

# 2.2.4 Firing Bullets

## Design

In this cycle, I will add the ability to fire bullets from the player's barrel which will fly off and fall down with gravity also

### Objectives

* [x] Allow the player to fire bullets using the spacebar
* [x] Have the bullets come from the barrel and go in the right direction
* [x] Bullets will be affected by gravity and be destroyed when offscreen

### Usability features&#x20;

Limit the number of bullets on screen to 1 to reduce confusion

### Key variables

| Variable Name | Use                                              |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| GRAVITY       | Constant value for gravity affecting the bullets |
| newBullet()   | Function which returns a bullet game object      |

### Pseudocode

```
WAJIOJDIOAWJODJAOIWDJODJAOIWDJWIOADJIOAWDJO
```

## Development

### Outcome

The outcome is a working power meter which increases at a rate which I find suitable for the game.

```javascript
import "../multiplayer.js"
import kaboom from "kaboom"
import "kaboom/global"

const WIDTH = 1920
const HEIGHT = 1080
const GRAVITY = 450

kaboom({
  width: WIDTH,
  height: HEIGHT,
})

setGravity(GRAVITY)

loadBean()
loadPedit("barrel", "sprites/barrel.pedit")
loadPedit("bullet", "sprites/bullet.pedit")

const bean = add([
  sprite("bean"),
  pos(80, 300),
  rotate(0),
  anchor("center"),
  {
    SPEED_HIGH: 150,
    SPEED_LOW: 45,
    power: 0
  }
])

const barrel = bean.add([
  sprite("barrel"),
  scale(3,3),
  pos(0,-60)
])

const newBullet = (position, angle) => { add([
  sprite("bullet"),
  pos(position),
  scale(1,1),
  offscreen({destroy: true}),
  area(),
  anchor("center"),
  body(),
  rotate(angle),
  move(vec2(Math.cos(angle/180*Math.PI),Math.sin(angle/180*Math.PI)),  (bean.power+20)*8.3),              //Calculating movement vector
  "bullet"
])}

const angle = add([            //UI for displaying the angle of player
  text(Math.floor(bean.angle)),
  pos(24,24)
])

const power = add([          //UI to display power of the shot
  text(Math.floor(bean.power)),
  pos(100, 24)
])

onKeyDown("space", () => {
  if (get("bullet").length == 0){
    let endOfBarrel = vec2(bean.pos.x + 85 * Math.cos(-0.15 + bean.angle/180 * Math.PI), bean.pos.y + 92 * Math.sin(-0.15 + bean.angle/180 * Math.PI)) //Find the position of the end of the barrel to add bullets
    let bullet = newBullet(endOfBarrel, bean.angle) 
  }
})

onUpdate(() => {              
  angle.text = Math.abs(Math.floor(bean.angle))  //Update player angle UI
  power.text = Math.floor(bean.power)
})

let rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_HIGH

onKeyDown("alt", () => {
  rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_LOW  //Slow rotation when holding alt
})

onKeyRelease("alt", () => {
  rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_HIGH  //Normal when alt released
})

onKeyDown("left", () => {
  if (bean.angle > -70) {
   bean.angle += -rotationSpeed * dt() //Rotate left
  }
  else {
    bean.angle = -70  //Stop at 70 degrees anticlockwise
  }
})

onKeyDown("right", () => {
  if (bean.angle < 0){
   bean.angle += rotationSpeed * dt() //Rotate right
  }
  else {
    bean.angle = 0  //Prevent tank rotating the wrong direction
  }
})

let smooth = 3;

onKeyDown("up", () => {
  smooth += 1.2 * dt()
  if (bean.power < 100){
    bean.power += 0.7 * smooth ** 2 * dt() //Increase power smoothly
  }
  else {
    bean.power = 100  //Maximum power 100
  }
})

onKeyRelease("up", () => {
  smooth = 3
})

onKeyDown("down", () => {
  smooth += 1.2 * dt()
  if (bean.power > 1){
    bean.power -= 0.7 * smooth ** 2 * dt()  //Decrease power smoothly
  }
  else {
    bean.power = 0  //Minimum power 0
  }
})

onKeyRelease("down", () => {
  smooth = 3
})

```

### Challenges

The first challenge I encountered while making this cycle was stopping too many bullets from being on screen at once. The code would constantly add bullets for every frame of the program when the spacebar was held. To mitigate this, I added the line:

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```javascript
if (get("bullet").length == 0)
```
{% endcode %}

before the code which spawns in another bullet. This means that only one bullet can be on screen at once.

The next challenge I encountered was calculating the movement vectors and positions for the bullets, which I needed trigonometry to assist me, leading to another problem where bullets went the wrong directions, leading me to realise that the cosine and sine functions in js take arguments in radians whereas I was using degrees. To fix this I converted the angle from degrees to radians. After that I used trial and error for values of the position to add bullets in where it looks good.

## Testing

### Tests

| Test | Instructions                              | What I expect                                                        | What actually happens                           | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| 1    | Run code                                  | Kaboom should run                                                    | Kaboom ran normally                             | Pass      |
| 2    | Tap up and down arrows                    | Power should increase/decrease slowly                                | Power increased and decreased slowly            | Pass      |
| 3    | Hold up and down arrows for a longer time | Power should gradually increase/decrease at an increasing rate       | Power level increases and decreases as expected | Pass      |
| 4    | Adjust power                              | UI should display the power and should be clamped between 0 and 100  | UI works and power is locked between 0 and 100  | Pass      |

### Evidence

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/kaboom.mp4" %}
The power level being adjusted in kaboom
{% endfile %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-188: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

design-and-development/2.2.4-firing-bullets.md, after:

# 2.2.4 Firing Bullets

## Design

In this cycle, I will add the ability to fire bullets from the player's barrel which will fly off and fall down with gravity also

### Objectives

* [x] Allow the player to fire bullets using the spacebar
* [x] Have the bullets come from the barrel and go in the right direction
* [x] Bullets will be affected by gravity and be destroyed when offscreen

### Usability features&#x20;

Limit the number of bullets on screen to 1 to reduce confusion

### Key variables

| Variable Name | Use                                              |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| GRAVITY       | Constant value for gravity affecting the bullets |
| newBullet()   | Function which returns a bullet game object      |

### Pseudocode

```
WAJIOJDIOAWJODJAOIWDJODJAOIWDJWIOADJIOAWDJO
```

## Development

### Outcome

The outcome is a working power meter which increases at a rate which I find suitable for the game.

```javascript
import "../multiplayer.js"
import kaboom from "kaboom"
import "kaboom/global"

const WIDTH = 1920
const HEIGHT = 1080
const GRAVITY = 450

kaboom({
  width: WIDTH,
  height: HEIGHT,
})

setGravity(GRAVITY)

loadBean()
loadPedit("barrel", "sprites/barrel.pedit")
loadPedit("bullet", "sprites/bullet.pedit")

const bean = add([
  sprite("bean"),
  pos(80, 300),
  rotate(0),
  anchor("center"),
  {
    SPEED_HIGH: 150,
    SPEED_LOW: 45,
    power: 0
  }
])

const barrel = bean.add([
  sprite("barrel"),
  scale(3,3),
  pos(0,-60)
])

const newBullet = (position, angle) => { add([
  sprite("bullet"),
  pos(position),
  scale(1,1),
  offscreen({destroy: true}),
  area(),
  anchor("center"),
  body(),
  rotate(angle),
  move(vec2(Math.cos(angle/180*Math.PI),Math.sin(angle/180*Math.PI)),  (bean.power+20)*8.3),              //Calculating movement vector
  "bullet"
])}

const angle = add([            //UI for displaying the angle of player
  text(Math.floor(bean.angle)),
  pos(24,24)
])

const power = add([          //UI to display power of the shot
  text(Math.floor(bean.power)),
  pos(100, 24)
])

onKeyDown("space", () => {
  if (get("bullet").length == 0){
    let endOfBarrel = vec2(bean.pos.x + 85 * Math.cos(-0.15 + bean.angle/180 * Math.PI), bean.pos.y + 92 * Math.sin(-0.15 + bean.angle/180 * Math.PI)) //Find the position of the end of the barrel to add bullets
    let bullet = newBullet(endOfBarrel, bean.angle) 
  }
})

onUpdate(() => {              
  angle.text = Math.abs(Math.floor(bean.angle))  //Update player angle UI
  power.text = Math.floor(bean.power)
})

let rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_HIGH

onKeyDown("alt", () => {
  rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_LOW  //Slow rotation when holding alt
})

onKeyRelease("alt", () => {
  rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_HIGH  //Normal when alt released
})

onKeyDown("left", () => {
  if (bean.angle > -70) {
   bean.angle += -rotationSpeed * dt() //Rotate left
  }
  else {
    bean.angle = -70  //Stop at 70 degrees anticlockwise
  }
})

onKeyDown("right", () => {
  if (bean.angle < 0){
   bean.angle += rotationSpeed * dt() //Rotate right
  }
  else {
    bean.angle = 0  //Prevent tank rotating the wrong direction
  }
})

let smooth = 3;

onKeyDown("up", () => {
  smooth += 1.2 * dt()
  if (bean.power < 100){
    bean.power += 0.7 * smooth ** 2 * dt() //Increase power smoothly
  }
  else {
    bean.power = 100  //Maximum power 100
  }
})

onKeyRelease("up", () => {
  smooth = 3
})

onKeyDown("down", () => {
  smooth += 1.2 * dt()
  if (bean.power > 1){
    bean.power -= 0.7 * smooth ** 2 * dt()  //Decrease power smoothly
  }
  else {
    bean.power = 0  //Minimum power 0
  }
})

onKeyRelease("down", () => {
  smooth = 3
})

```

### Challenges

The first challenge I encountered while making this cycle was stopping too many bullets from being on screen at once. The code would constantly add bullets for every frame of the program when the spacebar was held. To mitigate this, I added the line:

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```javascript
if (get("bullet").length == 0)
```
{% endcode %}

before the code which spawns in another bullet. This means that only one bullet can be on screen at once.

The next challenge I encountered was calculating the movement vectors and positions for the bullets, which I needed trigonometry to assist me, leading to another problem where bullets went the wrong directions, leading me to realise that the cosine and sine functions in js take arguments in radians whereas I was using degrees. To fix this I converted the angle from degrees to radians. After that I used trial and error for values of the position to add bullets in where it looks good.

## Testing

### Tests

| Test | Instructions                                    | What I expect                                                                            | What actually happens                           | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | ----------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| 1    | Run code                                        | Kaboom should run                                                                        | Kaboom ran normally                             | Pass      |
| 2    | Press space                                     | Bullet should come out of the barrel at a low velocity                                   | Power increased and decreased slowly            | Pass      |
| 3    | Press space after increasing power              | Bullet should come from the barrel at a higher velocity                                  | Power level increases and decreases as expected | Pass      |
| 4    | Press space with the barrel at an angle         | Bullet should come out of barrel moving at the same direction as the angle of the barrel | UI works and power is locked between 0 and 100  | Pass      |
| 5    | Monitor bullets after they come from the barrel | Bullets should fall and accelerate under gravity                                         |                                                 |           |

### Evidence

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/kaboom.mp4" %}
The power level being adjusted in kaboom
{% endfile %}
