design-and-development/2.2.6-cycle-6-terrain.md, before:

# 2.2.6 Cycle 6 Terrain

## Design

The aim of this cycle is to get a working terrain generation which has a simple sine wave for collision.

### Objectives

* [x] Render a single-coloured terrain on the screen
* [x] Add collision to the terrain so bullets can't fall through
* [x] Make sure players/characters can't spawn below the terrain

### Key functions

| Scene Name      | Use                                                                                                   |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| generateTerrain | Renders a drawing of the terrain which will be randomized in a later cycle but is a sine wave for now |
| tCollision      | Spawns in objects to add collision to the terrain as drawings don't have collision                    |

### Pseudocode

```
FUNCTION drawTerrain:
    for i in WIDTH:
        draw line from bottom of screen to sine wave in center
        
FUNCTION tCollision:
    for i in WIDTH:
        add collision rectangle every 16 pixels along the sine wave
        
onDraw(drawTerrain())

during "practice" scene:
    tCollision()
```

## Development

### Outcome

The outcome is a sine wave terrain with collision coloured red and players now spawn on top of the terrain.

{% code title="main.ts" %}
```javascript
import kaboom from "kaboom"
import "kaboom/global"
import {drawTerrain, tCollision} from "./terrain-generate.js"

export const WIDTH = 1920
export const HEIGHT = 1080
const GRAVITY = 450

kaboom({
  width: WIDTH,
  height: HEIGHT,
})

/*
const recording = record()

onKeyDown(".", () => {
  recording.download({filename: "recording"})
})

onKeyDown(".", () => {
  download({dataurl: screenshot()})
})
*/

setGravity(GRAVITY)

loadBean()
loadPedit("barrel", "sprites/barrel.pedit")
loadPedit("bullet", "sprites/bullet.pedit")

function addBtn(txt, p, f) {
  // add a parent background object
  const btn = add([
    rect(240, 80, { radius: 8 }),
    pos(p),
    area(),
    scale(1),
    anchor("center"),
    outline(4),
  ])

  // add a child object that displays the text
  btn.add([
    text(txt),
    anchor("center"),
    color(0, 0, 0),
  ])

  // onHoverUpdate() comes from area() component
  // it runs every frame when the object is being hovered
  btn.onHoverUpdate(() => {
    btn.scale = vec2(1.2)
    setCursor("pointer")
  })

  // onHoverEnd() comes from area() component
  // it runs once when the object stopped being hovered
  btn.onHoverEnd(() => {
    btn.scale = vec2(1)
  })

  // onClick() comes from area() component
  // it runs once when the object is clicked
  btn.onClick(f)

  return btn

}

scene("practice", () => {

  onDraw(() => {
    drawTerrain()
  })

  tCollision()
  
  onLoad(() => {
    add([
      pos(250, 250),
      text("Press \"esc\" to return to menu"),
      lifespan(2, { fade: 0.5 })
    ])
  })

  const bean = add([
    sprite("bean"),
    pos(80, HEIGHT/1.2 - 180*Math.sin(80/75)),
    rotate(0),
    anchor("center"),
    {
      SPEED_HIGH: 150,
      SPEED_LOW: 45,
      power: 0
    }
  ])

  const target = add([
    sprite("bean"),
    pos(1500, HEIGHT/1.2 - 180*Math.sin(1500/75)),
    area(),
    anchor("center")
  ])

  bean.add([
    sprite("barrel"),
    scale(3, 3),
    pos(0, -60)
  ])

  target.onCollide("bullet", () => {
    addKaboom(target.pos)
    destroy(target)
    destroyAll("bullet")
    go("practice")
  })

  onCollide("bullet", "ground", () => {
    destroyAll("bullet")
  })

  const newBullet = (position, angle) => {
    add([
      sprite("bullet"),
      pos(position),
      scale(1, 1),
      offscreen({ destroy: true }),
      area(),
      anchor("center"),
      body(),
      rotate(angle),
      move(vec2(Math.cos(angle / 180 * Math.PI), Math.sin(angle / 180 * Math.PI)), (bean.power + 20) * 8.3),              //Calculating movement vector
      "bullet"
    ])
  }

  const angle = add([            //UI for displaying the angle of player
    text(Math.floor(bean.angle)),
    pos(24, 24)
  ])

  const power = add([          //UI to display power of the shot
    text(Math.floor(bean.power)),
    pos(100, 24)
  ])

  onKeyDown("space", () => {
    if (get("bullet").length == 0) {
      let endOfBarrel = vec2(bean.pos.x + 85 * Math.cos(-0.15 + bean.angle / 180 * Math.PI), bean.pos.y + 92 * Math.sin(-0.15 + bean.angle / 180 * Math.PI)) //Find the position of the end of the barrel to add bullets
      let bullet = newBullet(endOfBarrel, bean.angle)
    }
  })

  onUpdate(() => {
    angle.text = Math.abs(Math.floor(bean.angle))  //Update player angle UI
    power.text = Math.floor(bean.power)
  })

  let rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_HIGH

  onKeyDown("alt", () => {
    rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_LOW  //Slow rotation when holding alt
  })

  onKeyRelease("alt", () => {
    rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_HIGH  //Normal when alt released
  })

  onKeyDown("left", () => {
    if (bean.angle > -70) {
      bean.angle += -rotationSpeed * dt() //Rotate left
    }
    else {
      bean.angle = -70  //Stop at 70 degrees anticlockwise
    }
  })

  onKeyDown("right", () => {
    if (bean.angle < 0) {
      bean.angle += rotationSpeed * dt() //Rotate right
    }
    else {
      bean.angle = 0  //Prevent tank rotating the wrong direction
    }
  })

  let smooth = 3;

  onKeyDown("up", () => {
    smooth += 1.2 * dt()
    if (bean.power < 100) {
      bean.power += 0.7 * smooth ** 2 * dt() //Increase power smoothly
    }
    else {
      bean.power = 100  //Maximum power 100
    }
  })

  onKeyRelease("up", () => {
    smooth = 3
  })

  onKeyDown("down", () => {
    smooth += 1.2 * dt()
    if (bean.power > 1) {
      bean.power -= 0.7 * smooth ** 2 * dt()  //Decrease power smoothly
    }
    else {
      bean.power = 0  //Minimum power 0
    }
  })

  onKeyRelease("down", () => {
    smooth = 3
  })

  onKeyDown("escape", () => {
    go("main-menu")
  })

})

scene("multiplayer-menu", () => {
  addBtn("Join Game", vec2(250, 150), () => { })
  addBtn("Create Game", vec2(250, 250), () => { })
  addBtn("Return", vec2(250, 350), () => { go("main-menu") })
})

scene("main-menu", () => {
  addBtn("Practice", vec2(250, 250), () => { go("practice") })
  addBtn("Multiplayer", vec2(250, 350), () => { go("multiplayer-menu") })
})

go("main-menu")
```
{% endcode %}

{% code title="terrain-generate.js" %}
```
import {WIDTH, HEIGHT} from "./main.js"

export const drawTerrain = () => {
  for (let w = 0; w < WIDTH; w += 3){
    drawLine({
      p1: vec2(w, HEIGHT),
      p2: vec2(w, HEIGHT/1.2 - 180*Math.sin(w/75)),
      width: 3,
      color: rgb(255, 0, 0)
    })
  }
}

/*let tPoints = []

export const drawTerrain = () => {
  if (tPoints.length == 0){
    tPoints.push(vec2(0))
    for (let w = 0; w < WIDTH; w += 3){
      tPoints.push(vec2(w,-HEIGHT/2 - 180*Math.sin(w/75)))
    }
    tPoints.push(vec2(WIDTH,0))
  }
  drawPolygon({
    pts: tPoints,
    fill: true,
    pos: vec2(0, HEIGHT)
  })
}*/ //fill component for this method seems to function unexpectedly so discontinued

export const tCollision = () => {
  for (let w = 0; w < WIDTH; w += 16){
    add([
      pos(w, HEIGHT/1.2 - 180*Math.sin(w/75)),
      rect(8,15),
      area(),
      color(255,255,0),
      anchor("top"),
      opacity(0),
      "ground"
    ])
  }
}// Some code
```
{% endcode %}

### Challenges

The only challenges I encountered during this cycle were getting the scenes to transition without problems which was worked out quite quickly.

## Testing

### Tests

| Test | Instructions                                  | What I expect                                                                          | What actually happens                            | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| 1    | Run code                                      | Kaboom should run and take you to the main menu                                        | Kaboom ran normally and took me to the main menu | Pass      |
| 2    | Hover over one of the buttons with the cursor | Button should enlarge                                                                  | Button enlarged                                  | Pass      |
| 3    | Click one of the buttons                      | Button should function as expected                                                     | Button functions as expected                     | Pass      |
| 4    | Go to the practice range                      | Message should appear telling you how to exit back to the menu                         | Message appeared                                 | Pass      |
| 5    | Shoot at the target                           | After hitting the target, player position should change and a new target should appear | Target reappeared and player moved               | Pass      |
| 6    | Press "esc" while in practice                 | Player should be taken back to the main menu                                           | Player returns to main menu                      | Pass      |

### Evidence

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/kaboom (1).mp4" %}
The power level being adjusted in kaboom
{% endfile %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-203: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

design-and-development/2.2.6-cycle-6-terrain.md, after:

# 2.2.6 Cycle 6 Terrain

## Design

The aim of this cycle is to get a working terrain generation which has a simple sine wave for collision.

### Objectives

* [x] Render a single-coloured terrain on the screen
* [x] Add collision to the terrain so bullets can't fall through
* [x] Make sure players/characters can't spawn below the terrain

### Key functions

| Scene Name      | Use                                                                                                   |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| generateTerrain | Renders a drawing of the terrain which will be randomized in a later cycle but is a sine wave for now |
| tCollision      | Spawns in objects to add collision to the terrain as drawings don't have collision                    |

### Pseudocode

```
FUNCTION drawTerrain:
    for i in WIDTH:
        draw line from bottom of screen to sine wave in center
        
FUNCTION tCollision:
    for i in WIDTH:
        add collision rectangle every 16 pixels along the sine wave
        
onDraw(drawTerrain())

during "practice" scene:
    tCollision()
```

## Development

### Outcome

The outcome is a sine wave terrain with collision coloured red and players now spawn on top of the terrain.

{% code title="main.ts" %}
```javascript
import kaboom from "kaboom"
import "kaboom/global"
import {drawTerrain, tCollision} from "./terrain-generate.js"

export const WIDTH = 1920
export const HEIGHT = 1080
const GRAVITY = 450

kaboom({
  width: WIDTH,
  height: HEIGHT,
})

/*
const recording = record()

onKeyDown(".", () => {
  recording.download({filename: "recording"})
})

onKeyDown(".", () => {
  download({dataurl: screenshot()})
})
*/

setGravity(GRAVITY)

loadBean()
loadPedit("barrel", "sprites/barrel.pedit")
loadPedit("bullet", "sprites/bullet.pedit")

function addBtn(txt, p, f) {
  // add a parent background object
  const btn = add([
    rect(240, 80, { radius: 8 }),
    pos(p),
    area(),
    scale(1),
    anchor("center"),
    outline(4),
  ])

  // add a child object that displays the text
  btn.add([
    text(txt),
    anchor("center"),
    color(0, 0, 0),
  ])

  // onHoverUpdate() comes from area() component
  // it runs every frame when the object is being hovered
  btn.onHoverUpdate(() => {
    btn.scale = vec2(1.2)
    setCursor("pointer")
  })

  // onHoverEnd() comes from area() component
  // it runs once when the object stopped being hovered
  btn.onHoverEnd(() => {
    btn.scale = vec2(1)
  })

  // onClick() comes from area() component
  // it runs once when the object is clicked
  btn.onClick(f)

  return btn

}

scene("practice", () => {

  onDraw(() => {
    drawTerrain()
  })

  tCollision()
  
  onLoad(() => {
    add([
      pos(250, 250),
      text("Press \"esc\" to return to menu"),
      lifespan(2, { fade: 0.5 })
    ])
  })

  const bean = add([
    sprite("bean"),
    pos(80, HEIGHT/1.2 - 180*Math.sin(80/75)),
    rotate(0),
    anchor("center"),
    {
      SPEED_HIGH: 150,
      SPEED_LOW: 45,
      power: 0
    }
  ])

  const target = add([
    sprite("bean"),
    pos(1500, HEIGHT/1.2 - 180*Math.sin(1500/75)),
    area(),
    anchor("center")
  ])

  bean.add([
    sprite("barrel"),
    scale(3, 3),
    pos(0, -60)
  ])

  target.onCollide("bullet", () => {
    addKaboom(target.pos)
    destroy(target)
    destroyAll("bullet")
    go("practice")
  })

  onCollide("bullet", "ground", () => {
    destroyAll("bullet")
  })

  const newBullet = (position, angle) => {
    add([
      sprite("bullet"),
      pos(position),
      scale(1, 1),
      offscreen({ destroy: true }),
      area(),
      anchor("center"),
      body(),
      rotate(angle),
      move(vec2(Math.cos(angle / 180 * Math.PI), Math.sin(angle / 180 * Math.PI)), (bean.power + 20) * 8.3),              //Calculating movement vector
      "bullet"
    ])
  }

  const angle = add([            //UI for displaying the angle of player
    text(Math.floor(bean.angle)),
    pos(24, 24)
  ])

  const power = add([          //UI to display power of the shot
    text(Math.floor(bean.power)),
    pos(100, 24)
  ])

  onKeyDown("space", () => {
    if (get("bullet").length == 0) {
      let endOfBarrel = vec2(bean.pos.x + 85 * Math.cos(-0.15 + bean.angle / 180 * Math.PI), bean.pos.y + 92 * Math.sin(-0.15 + bean.angle / 180 * Math.PI)) //Find the position of the end of the barrel to add bullets
      let bullet = newBullet(endOfBarrel, bean.angle)
    }
  })

  onUpdate(() => {
    angle.text = Math.abs(Math.floor(bean.angle))  //Update player angle UI
    power.text = Math.floor(bean.power)
  })

  let rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_HIGH

  onKeyDown("alt", () => {
    rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_LOW  //Slow rotation when holding alt
  })

  onKeyRelease("alt", () => {
    rotationSpeed = bean.SPEED_HIGH  //Normal when alt released
  })

  onKeyDown("left", () => {
    if (bean.angle > -70) {
      bean.angle += -rotationSpeed * dt() //Rotate left
    }
    else {
      bean.angle = -70  //Stop at 70 degrees anticlockwise
    }
  })

  onKeyDown("right", () => {
    if (bean.angle < 0) {
      bean.angle += rotationSpeed * dt() //Rotate right
    }
    else {
      bean.angle = 0  //Prevent tank rotating the wrong direction
    }
  })

  let smooth = 3;

  onKeyDown("up", () => {
    smooth += 1.2 * dt()
    if (bean.power < 100) {
      bean.power += 0.7 * smooth ** 2 * dt() //Increase power smoothly
    }
    else {
      bean.power = 100  //Maximum power 100
    }
  })

  onKeyRelease("up", () => {
    smooth = 3
  })

  onKeyDown("down", () => {
    smooth += 1.2 * dt()
    if (bean.power > 1) {
      bean.power -= 0.7 * smooth ** 2 * dt()  //Decrease power smoothly
    }
    else {
      bean.power = 0  //Minimum power 0
    }
  })

  onKeyRelease("down", () => {
    smooth = 3
  })

  onKeyDown("escape", () => {
    go("main-menu")
  })

})

scene("multiplayer-menu", () => {
  addBtn("Join Game", vec2(250, 150), () => { })
  addBtn("Create Game", vec2(250, 250), () => { })
  addBtn("Return", vec2(250, 350), () => { go("main-menu") })
})

scene("main-menu", () => {
  addBtn("Practice", vec2(250, 250), () => { go("practice") })
  addBtn("Multiplayer", vec2(250, 350), () => { go("multiplayer-menu") })
})

go("main-menu")
```
{% endcode %}

{% code title="terrain-generate.js" %}
```
import {WIDTH, HEIGHT} from "./main.js"

export const drawTerrain = () => {
  for (let w = 0; w < WIDTH; w += 3){
    drawLine({
      p1: vec2(w, HEIGHT),
      p2: vec2(w, HEIGHT/1.2 - 180*Math.sin(w/75)),
      width: 3,
      color: rgb(255, 0, 0)
    })
  }
}

/*let tPoints = []

export const drawTerrain = () => {
  if (tPoints.length == 0){
    tPoints.push(vec2(0))
    for (let w = 0; w < WIDTH; w += 3){
      tPoints.push(vec2(w,-HEIGHT/2 - 180*Math.sin(w/75)))
    }
    tPoints.push(vec2(WIDTH,0))
  }
  drawPolygon({
    pts: tPoints,
    fill: true,
    pos: vec2(0, HEIGHT)
  })
}*/ //fill component for this method seems to function unexpectedly so discontinued

export const tCollision = () => {
  for (let w = 0; w < WIDTH; w += 16){
    add([
      pos(w, HEIGHT/1.2 - 180*Math.sin(w/75)),
      rect(8,15),
      area(),
      color(255,255,0),
      anchor("top"),
      opacity(0),
      "ground"
    ])
  }
}// Some code
```
{% endcode %}

### Challenges

There were many challenges encountered while completing this cycle. The first was finding an efficient way to render the terrain. Using a single polygon from the kaboom.js codebase and creating an array of points for the polygon to fill doesn't work as expected, as the fill attribute creates lines from the first point to all the other points on the polygon making it look wrong. To fix this a line from the bottom of the screen to the point on the sine wave was created on every 3rd pixel with a 3 pixel width in order to keep detail but also retain a higher fps count.&#x20;

Another challenge was that the lines rendered by draw functions in kaboom have no collisions. This meant that small invisible rectangles with collision had to be put along the terrain, originally on every pixel, which created a lot of frame drops due to approximately 2000 objects being calculated by the game. Therefore they were made big enough to stop bullets falling through the ground with one being placed every 16th pixel along, which functions just as good as you would want it to.

## Testing

### Tests

| Test | Instructions                                  | What I expect                                                                          | What actually happens                            | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| 1    | Run code                                      | Kaboom should run and take you to the main menu                                        | Kaboom ran normally and took me to the main menu | Pass      |
| 2    | Hover over one of the buttons with the cursor | Button should enlarge                                                                  | Button enlarged                                  | Pass      |
| 3    | Click one of the buttons                      | Button should function as expected                                                     | Button functions as expected                     | Pass      |
| 4    | Go to the practice range                      | Message should appear telling you how to exit back to the menu                         | Message appeared                                 | Pass      |
| 5    | Shoot at the target                           | After hitting the target, player position should change and a new target should appear | Target reappeared and player moved               | Pass      |
| 6    | Press "esc" while in practice                 | Player should be taken back to the main menu                                           | Player returns to main menu                      | Pass      |

### Evidence

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/kaboom (1).mp4" %}
The power level being adjusted in kaboom
{% endfile %}
