design-and-development/2.2.2-cycle-2-rotation.md, before:

# 2.2.2 Cycle 2 Rotation

## Design

For this cycle I want to have the player able to rotate their character, which will serve as the base for the tank game for aiming. This will be controlled with the left and right arrows on the keyboard. Holding "alt" while controlling the character will slow the speed of the rotation so that players can aim more precisely. The angle of the players' characters will be displayed in the corner as an early template for the UI.

### Objectives

* [ ] Allow the player to rotate left and right with the arrow keys
* [ ] Allow the player to rotate more precisely using the "alt" key
* [ ] Display the rotation of the player in the corner of the screen

### Usability features

Holding the "alt" key allows for more precise aiming

### Key variables

| Variable Name | Use                               |
| ------------- | --------------------------------- |
| SPEED\_HIGH   | Speed of rotation normally        |
| SPEED\_LOW    | Speed of rotation in precise mode |

### Pseudocode

## Development

### Outcome

### Challenges

## Testing

### Tests

### Evidence

Commit message:

GITBOOK-166: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

design-and-development/2.2.2-cycle-2-rotation.md, after:

# 2.2.2 Cycle 2 Rotation

## Design

For this cycle I want to have the player able to rotate their character, which will serve as the base for the tank game for aiming. This will be controlled with the left and right arrows on the keyboard. Holding "alt" while controlling the character will slow the speed of the rotation so that players can aim more precisely. The angle of the players' characters will be displayed in the corner as an early template for the UI.

### Objectives

* [x] Allow the player to rotate left and right with the arrow keys
* [x] Allow the player to rotate more precisely using the "alt" key
* [x] Display the rotation of the player in the corner of the screen

### Usability features

Holding the "alt" key allows for more precise aiming

### Key variables

| Variable Name | Use                                                    |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| SPEED\_HIGH   | Constant storing the speed of rotation normally        |
| SPEED\_LOW    | Constant storing the speed of rotation in precise mode |
| rotationSpeed | Variable which holds the current rotation speed        |

### Pseudocode

```
ifKeyDown("alt") then 
    rotationSpeed = SPEED_LOW
else
    rotationSpeed = SPEED_HIGH

ifKeyDown("left-arrow") then
    rotate(-rotationSpeed)

ifKeyDown("right-arrow") then 
    rotate(rotationSpeed)
```

## Development

### Outcome

The outcome of this cycle is a character which the player can rotate and change the speed of rotation as well as a UI displaying the current rotation.

### Challenges

Some of the challenges

## Testing

### Tests

### Evidence
